Our vision system is a complex machinery, able to transform the light change we detect with our eyes, to meanigful objects, perception of depth and motion. The information undergoes multiple stages of trasnformations by different parts of our visual cortex. The primary visual cortex (V1) is responsible for one of the first stages of vision processing. One of its fuctions is edge detection, which is determined by group of interacting neurons. Some visual illusions and are believed to be caused in that specific part of V1. It is important to understand those illusions as they can give us an insight to how neural computation is done.

Here we explore a model of the orientation selective neurons in our primary visual cortex. These neurons are responsible for detecting edges at different locations of what we see with our eyes. We have multiple neurons per location responding to different edge orientations. Their combined response forms our perception of the edge presented. Neurons for different locations are also connected to each other, influencing each other's responses. This can lead to change of the perceived orientations, leading to different visual illusions and effects. The connections between the neurons can be modelled using the elastica principle of smooth continuity - the smoother the curve connecting two neurons, the stronger they should be connected.

Existing work already explores a static model of those connections. However the effect, or modulation, of nearby neurons to a specific neuron is calculated only once, without the neuron influencing back its modulators. Moreover the modulation is calculated directly from the orientations presented, rather than mediated through the group of neurons responsible for that location. This report addresses both of the issues. We implement a dynamic model of the orientation selective neurons, with connection between different neurons defined by the elastica principle. We explore the differences between the dynamic and static model, to check if in a dynamic setting, we still experience the same effects. We find that some cases the effect remains that same. However as we add more more edges to the scene, the two models start to differ.

(reference - The elastica: a mathematical theory)

further development - can precalculate the matrix - we can use the actual elastica energy formula, rather than the approximation

