Dayan paper about contextual effects inferred from image statistics.
It's a really tough paper but worth the effort. I don't think it will be
directly relevant to how we will be approaching the modeling, but it
should give you an idea of what the interplay between brain inspired
modeling and machine learning can be.


For starting off I would recommend implementing Euler integration by hand to get a bit of a feel for differential equations

Try to solve the following equation: 
tau*dr/dt = -r + a

And play around with starting values for r, and different values for tau and a. 


html tool about variable coding (check folder)

You might also find this website very useful in general:
http://fourier.eng.hmc.edu/e180/lectures/v1/node1.html

A lot details most of which are not directly relevant at the moment, but
is a very good, quick to read, resource on everything V1.


Hi Martin,

Here's the working illusion:
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0014074

I attached the hubel and wiesel slide.

Let me know if you need anything else!

It might be useful to make digital versions of the grid drawing we had
today, or to do that on the whiteboard.

I'm busy most of tomorrow morning, but if you want we could meet before
if you want vocal feedback. If you send me a presentation tonight I'll
also have a look at it and email you back.

In the Coursera course week 2 section 2 is probably useful, they explain
tuning curves there.

Sander



visual system's internal model of world - tai sing lee




Concerning future goal: Currently you have a trivial lateral connecivity 
/ weight matrix.
The goal is examine to the dynamics of the neural activity in response 
to various stimuli when the lateral connections are made more realistic 
(taken from Sander's paper)

Hi Martin,

Glad to see your interest in this project! 

I would suggest one of two papers to check out, depending on what you want to know more on. 

If you want to know more about the kind of illusions and biases we will study, have a look at the review paper Schwartz et al (2007) - Space and time in visual context (attached). Especially note how they intuitively explain illusions from neural activities, figure 3. 

If you want to know more about the kind of neural network we would be building to study these biases, take a look at the model in Zhaoping (1999) - Contextual influences in V1 as a basis for pop out and asymmetry in visual search (also attached). This is bit a more technical paper, and gives you an idea of the kind of maths involved in simulating a neural network. The results presented are not directly relevant to our project, so you can safely ignore the bulk of this paper. 

Hope that helps, and let us know if you have any other questions. 

Sander




